Yes, emulating the environment on your local machine can count as a valid step in your research, provided you justify its relevance and limitations. Many researchers use emulation to simulate edge computing conditions, especially when access to physical devices is limited or unnecessary for the early stages of validation. However, there are key considerations to ensure this approach is credible and scientifically defensible.


1. Why Emulation Can Be Valid
Reproducibility: Emulations can be precisely controlled and replicated, allowing others to validate your results.
Cost and Accessibility: Hardware constraints can limit access to physical edge devices; emulation bridges this gap.
Feasibility Testing: Before deployment, emulation is an efficient way to test the model’s performance under constrained conditions.
Scalability: Simulating multiple devices or workloads is easier and more scalable in a virtual environment.


2. How to Emulate Edge Computing
To simulate the conditions of an edge device, replicate the hardware and software limitations as closely as possible:

Set Resource Constraints
Limit your local machine’s resources (e.g., CPU, memory, power) to mimic an edge device:

Use Docker or QEMU to create a container or virtual machine with restricted resources.
Manually restrict CPU and memory usage using tools like taskset and ulimit.

docker run -it --memory="256m" --cpus="0.5" python:3.9 bash
This command creates a Python container with 256 MB of RAM and half a CPU core.

Simulate Limited Connectivity
Introduce latency or bandwidth constraints to emulate unreliable network conditions using tools like tc (Traffic Control).
Monitor Performance
Use tools such as:

htop or psutil for CPU and memory monitoring.
Powerstat (Linux) to estimate power consumption.


3. Performance Metrics to Validate
To justify the use of emulation in your research, measure the following:

Inference Latency: Ensure predictions meet the timing requirements of a real-world edge use case.
Memory Footprint: Confirm the model uses resources comparable to actual edge devices.
Scalability: Show the model performs well under simulated workloads.
Energy Estimation: Approximate power consumption based on resource usage and known hardware profiles.

python: import psutil


4. Limitations of Emulation
You must explicitly acknowledge these in your research:

Imperfect Resource Simulation: Emulated environments cannot perfectly replicate the actual hardware’s architecture or behavior.
Power Consumption Differences: Power estimates are rough approximations and may not reflect real-world usage.
I/O Performance: Interactions with real sensors or actuators may vary significantly.


5. Strengthen the Validity of Emulation
Compare with Real-World Metrics: If possible, compare emulated results to benchmarks or published results on similar edge devices.
Use Established Tools: Leverage widely accepted emulation frameworks or simulators, such as NS-3 (for networked systems) or IoT-specific simulators like Cooja or EdgeSim.
Run Diverse Tests: Test under multiple emulated conditions (e.g., varying resource constraints, input rates).


6. Transition to Physical Devices (future work)
While emulation is acceptable for early validation, deploying and testing on physical devices significantly strengthens your claims. Consider obtaining affordable edge hardware like:

Raspberry Pi: A general-purpose edge device.
ESP32/ESP8266: Low-power microcontrollers for lightweight applications.
NVIDIA Jetson Nano: For AI-based edge applications.
If transitioning to physical devices isn't possible, explain in your research why emulation is a suitable proxy and highlight its relevance to your specific application.


7. Conclusion for Your Research
Yes, emulation can count as evidence in your research, provided:

You carefully justify its use.
You address its limitations transparently.
You present results that are relevant and interpretable in the context of real-world edge scenarios.



































